Requirements_for_Software_Security_Engineering.md, before:

![](assets/markdown-img-paste-20170909112804883.png)

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<!------------------------------------------------------------------->
- [- **Requirements for Software Security Engineering**](#----requirements-for-software-security-engineering--)
  * [Security Requirement Claim 1 and Claim 4](#security-requirement-claim-1-and-claim-4)
    + [Part 1](#part-1)
    + [Part 2](#part-2)
    + [Part 3](#part-3)
    + [Part 4](#part-4)
  * [Security Requirement Claim 2](#security-requirement-claim-2)
    + [Part 1](#part-1-1)
    + [Part 2](#part-2-1)
    + [Part 3](#part-3-1)
    + [Part 4](#part-4-1)
  * [Security Requirement Claim 3](#security-requirement-claim-3)
    + [Part 1](#part-1-2)
    + [Part 2](#part-2-2)
    + [Part 3](#part-3-2)
    + [Part 4](#part-4-2)
  * [Security Requirement Claim 5](#security-requirement-claim-5)
    + [Part 1](#part-1-3)
    + [Part 2](#part-2-3)
    + [Part 3](#part-3-3)
    + [Part 4](#part-4-3)

<small><i><a href='http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/'>Table of contents generated with markdown-toc</a></i></small>
<!------------------------------------------------------------------->

# **Requirements for Software Security Engineering**

Link to Team Lucidchart mis-use cases updated with feedback from assignment:  
* [JAX Mise-use cases](https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/edit/fd7c6a2d-548b-40f9-8d09-45d134f69ed8/0)

<!-------------------------------------------------------------------> 
## Security Requirement Claim 1 and Claim 4
* Larry S and James P

### Part 1
> Assurance Claim

* Claim 1: Jenkins provides an acceptable level of protection from Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF) attacks
* Claim 2: Jenkins adequately filters user input to prevent reflected XSS 

### Part 2
> Review OSS project documentation for alignment of security requirements with advertised features 

Jenkins has very little documentation on CSRF or XSS, however there are a few here and there, one on XSS security issues which was reported via online community [here](https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-6287).

The initial documentation page on [Protecting users of Jenkins from other threats](https://jenkins.io/doc/book/system-administration/security/) indicates there "are additional subsystems in Jenkins that protect Jenkins and users of Jenkins from indirect attacks". It then immediately specifies that all these features are disabled by default. A direct link to [CSRF Protection](https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/CSRF+Protection) is provided which goes into further detail with links to owasp's definition of [CSRF](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_(CSRF)) for further education on the matter. Additionally, a link to [Kaspersky](https://usa.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/spear-phishing) is provided to describe a common way to exploit CSRF using spear phishing.

Since this feature is documented as disabled by default, some instructions are provided to inform the user on how to enable this security feature via a simple menu setting. Interestingly however, it is also noted that this security feature is only disabled  by default in 1.x versions of Jenkins, and is enabled by default in 2.x versions. Unfortunately for those users who are upgrading from 1.x to 2.x, the CSRF protection setting still does not get set by default during the conversion.

For users of the 1.x version of Jenkins, a groovy script is provided to mitigate the security risk, which is provided here for completeness:

**csrf.groovy**

    import hudson.security.csrf.DefaultCrumbIssuer
    import jenkins.model.Jenkins
     
    def instance = Jenkins.instance
    instance.setCrumbIssuer(new DefaultCrumbIssuer(true))
    instance.save()



### Part 3
> Summarize your observations

### Part 4
> Review OSS project documentation for security related configuration and installation issues. Summarize your observations.


<!-------------------------------------------------------------------> 
## Security Requirement Claim 2
 * Chad C

### Part 1
> Assurance Claim

* Jenkins software provides sufficient support to adequately isolate the master node from malicious code or file access.

### Part 2
> Review OSS project documentation for alignment of security requirements with advertised features.

Jenkins nodes behave as a single distributed process.  As a consequence, the slave and master both perform similar and widely-varying processes, e.g. accessing files and triggering jobs.  This works within smaller projects.  Larger models require a more administration, i.e. a separation of trust. In these cases, the master is controlled by an administrator and slaves are designated to teams.  This designates the master as more trustworthy than any slave.  In Jenkins, this is a feature that can be enabled.

There are multiple reasons for enabling this feature. Consider the scenario where sensitive information needs is running on the master.  Without such a separation, malicious slaves might access this information. Once this setting is enabled, the slave will be unable to execute code on the master node.

If enabled, when a slave -> master request occurs, unless the command has been explicitly classified as intended for slave -> use, Jenkins will err on the side of caution and refuses to execute the command.

Jenkins even throws security exceptions to prevent undesirable node/information access.   

    java.lang.SecurityException: slave may not create file on the master
    See http://jenkins-ci.org/security-144 for more details

    java.lang.SecurityException: Sending org.jenkinsci.plugins.gitclient.CliGitAPIImpl$GetPrivateKeys from slave to master is prohibited.
    See http://jenkins-ci.org/security-144 for more details

As of version 1.587 Jenkins has added an optional security wall between the master and slaves.  Unfortunately, the subsystem is turned off by default (for backward compatibility).  Fortunately, there are a few ways to enable this setting:

* web UI at http://jenkins/configureSecurity

* Through file system, create or edit the file $JENKINS_HOME/secrets/slave-to-master-security-kill-switch so that it contains false

* Using a Groovy Hook Script and doing something like this:

        import jenkins.security.s2m.AdminWhitelistRule
        import jenkins.model.Jenkins
        Jenkins.instance.getInjector().getInstance(AdminWhitelistRule.class).setMasterKillSwitch(false)
    
The OSS documentation mentioned File access rules.  Jenkins lets user specify file access rules.  These rules are specified via tuples for read, write, creating directories/files, deleting directories/files, and retrieving node stats. These rules are then applied to files.  Regular expressions are used to map each rule to certain files.  

Slaves should not have access to the master's files.  Otherwise, the slave might access and even alter sensitive/imperative data on the mater.  Instead, the master should work on files of a slave.  

Slave -> master code execution is also discouraged, since it opens up possibilities of slave -> master exploitation.  Unfortunately, by default Jenkins allows slave -> master execution. Extra caution must be taken in such cases, because this configuration makes slave -> master exploitations more likely.  If a malicious slave controls a Java serialization payload, then when this code is deserialized on the master each field will be controlled by the slave, i.e. the slave is now changing code within the master node.  A vulnerability could also appear if the slave is allowed to execute certain portions of code on the mater.  In the below code a slave could supply any code to the master's function and therefore read any file on the master:

	// UNSAFE
	class SomeCodeThatRunsOnSlave {
	    void readBackSomeFileFromMaster() {
	        final String path = "...";
	        channel.call(new SlaveToMasterCallable<String,IOException>() {
	            public String call() {
	                return FileUtils.readFileToString(new File(path));
	            }
	        });
	    }
	}
Callable that delegates execution to deserialized object is dangerous and needs to be carefully examined, because a malicious slave can designate unintended Runnable object:

	// UNSAFE
	class MyCallable extends SlaveToMasterCallable<Void> {
	    Runnable r;
	    public Void call() {
	        r.run();
	        return null;
	    }
	}
To avoid such hassles, one may rewrite code to not call back to a master from a slave. Instead, supply the slave with all the data it needs so no callbacks are necessary. This hierarchy of calling from master -> slave may not always be possible/practical, but it's much more secure.


### Part 3
> Summarize your observations

Slave -> master code access/execution provides many opportunities for exploitation. Security must be set to prevent any slave -> master file access or code execution. It is best to give the slave no permissions on the master. 

Jenkins provides a security feature which prevents slave -> master file access/code execution.  Yet, this feature is disabled by default for backward compatibility.  This feature is also disabled because it largely hinders usability on smaller/one-node projects. 

Jenkins provides node-to-node permissions at the file granularity.  This can be used to secure sensitive information and prevent malicious local file execution.

### Part 4 
 > Review OSS project documentation for security related configuration and installation issues. Summarize your observations.

As a part of configuration, Jenkins lets user specify file access rules.  These rules are specified via tuples for read, write, creating directories/files, deleting directories/files, and retrieving node stats. These rules are then applied to files.  Regular expressions are used to map each rule to certain files. 

There are many possibilities of exploitation due to file access rules.  If files are later added/renamed and file access rules are not kept up-to-date, then malicious users may gain access/control over these files.  Also, if the user is unfamiliar with regex expressions, they might misconfigure file access rules.  Each of these cases can aid malicious users in exploiting the system.

Jenkins allows for command whitelisting to guarantee only certain commands are run on its nodes.  One can also specify currently rejected commands.  Whitelisting still requires a lot of verification that such a command it not exploitable by malicious slaves.  This requires careful analysis of what source code is being run by such commands.  One must also take into account all possible serialization fields (which the slave controls in slave -> master execution).  

Plugins also need to be configured for security.  Plugins also need to classify their methods and whether they are meant to be run on a master or on a slave.  For this purpose, the remote library has added the interfaces to control master method access.  There is also an extendable class to guarantee only master -> slave execution (called MasterToSlaveCallable).  The FileCallable is similar and only enables master -> slave file access.  These classes and wrappers help prevent the mis-use of accessible master-code by malicious slaves.

<!------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Security Requirement Claim 3
 * Dan R

### Part 1
> Assurance Claim

* Jenkins authentication mechanisms are sufficient to prevent malicious users from gaining access to the system

### Part 2
> Review OSS project documentation for alignment of security requirements with advertised features. 

According to the [Standard Security Setup](https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Standard+Security+Setup) page, Jenkins will allow all users to run anything as Jenkins by default. This can be fixed by establishing an authentication mechanism and setting permissions. The authentication component is more relevant in this case.  

Jenkins supports two primary authentication models. For large installations, a corporate service like LDAP is recommended. For smaller installations, Jenkins can provide its own user database.  While not supported in the base installation, some plugins and configurations allow additional authentication features, such as authentication via github, or 2FA. 

### Part 3
> Summarize your observations

Jenkins has many authentication and authorization features that can prevent unauthorized access to the system. These features are sufficient to prevent unauthorized access via traditional attacks against login forms. To gain access, attackers would need to obtain legitimate credentials or obtain a shell with code execution system on the host system.  

### Part 4
 > Review OSS project documentation for security related configuration and installation issues. Summarize your observations.

<!------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Security Requirement Claim 5 
* all team members

### Part 1
> Assurance Claim

* Jenkins adequately secures files to prevent unauthorized file accesses

### Part 2
> Review OSS project documentation for alignment of security requirements with advertised features. 

### Part 3
> Summarize your observations

### Part 4
> Review OSS project documentation for security related configuration and installation issues. Summarize your observations.

Commit message:

Add gotchas and a few links

Requirements_for_Software_Security_Engineering.md, after:

![](assets/markdown-img-paste-20170909112804883.png)

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<!------------------------------------------------------------------->
- [- **Requirements for Software Security Engineering**](#----requirements-for-software-security-engineering--)
  * [Security Requirement Claim 1 and Claim 4](#security-requirement-claim-1-and-claim-4)
    + [Part 1](#part-1)
    + [Part 2](#part-2)
    + [Part 3](#part-3)
    + [Part 4](#part-4)
  * [Security Requirement Claim 2](#security-requirement-claim-2)
    + [Part 1](#part-1-1)
    + [Part 2](#part-2-1)
    + [Part 3](#part-3-1)
    + [Part 4](#part-4-1)
  * [Security Requirement Claim 3](#security-requirement-claim-3)
    + [Part 1](#part-1-2)
    + [Part 2](#part-2-2)
    + [Part 3](#part-3-2)
    + [Part 4](#part-4-2)
  * [Security Requirement Claim 5](#security-requirement-claim-5)
    + [Part 1](#part-1-3)
    + [Part 2](#part-2-3)
    + [Part 3](#part-3-3)
    + [Part 4](#part-4-3)

<small><i><a href='http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/'>Table of contents generated with markdown-toc</a></i></small>
<!------------------------------------------------------------------->

# **Requirements for Software Security Engineering**

Link to Team Lucidchart mis-use cases updated with feedback from assignment:  
* [JAX Mise-use cases](https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/edit/fd7c6a2d-548b-40f9-8d09-45d134f69ed8/0)

<!-------------------------------------------------------------------> 
## Security Requirement Claim 1 and Claim 4
* Larry S and James P

### Part 1
> Assurance Claim

* Claim 1: Jenkins provides an acceptable level of protection from Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF) attacks
* Claim 2: Jenkins adequately filters user input to prevent reflected XSS 

### Part 2
> Review OSS project documentation for alignment of security requirements with advertised features 

Jenkins has very little documentation on CSRF or XSS, however there are a few here and there, one on XSS security issues which was reported via online issue tracking here:[JENKINS-6287](https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-6287).

The initial documentation page on [Protecting users of Jenkins from other threats](https://jenkins.io/doc/book/system-administration/security/) indicates there "are additional subsystems in Jenkins that protect Jenkins and users of Jenkins from indirect attacks". It then immediately specifies that all these features are disabled by default. A direct link to [CSRF Protection](https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/CSRF+Protection) is provided which goes into further detail with links to owasp's definition of [CSRF](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_(CSRF)) for further education on the matter. Additionally, a link to Kaspersky is provided to describe a common way to exploit CSRF using [spear phishing](https://usa.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/spear-phishing).

Since this feature is documented as disabled by default, some instructions are provided to inform the user on how to enable this security feature via a simple menu setting. Interestingly however, it is also noted that this security feature is only disabled  by default in 1.x versions of Jenkins, and is enabled by default in 2.x versions. Unfortunately for those users who are upgrading from 1.x to 2.x, the CSRF protection setting still does not get set by default during the conversion.

For users of the 1.x version of Jenkins, a groovy script is provided to mitigate the security risk, which is provided here for completeness:

**csrf.groovy**

    import hudson.security.csrf.DefaultCrumbIssuer
    import jenkins.model.Jenkins
     
    def instance = Jenkins.instance
    instance.setCrumbIssuer(new DefaultCrumbIssuer(true))
    instance.save()

A few "gotchas" are listed here as well, one for nginx detailed in issue [JENKINS-23793](https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-23793), and another referencing the Jenkins [REST API](https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Remote+access+API) which includes additional CSRF protection measures by adding a CSRF protection token in the request header of the message posted. 

### Part 3
> Summarize your observations

### Part 4
> Review OSS project documentation for security related configuration and installation issues. Summarize your observations.


<!-------------------------------------------------------------------> 
## Security Requirement Claim 2
 * Chad C

### Part 1
> Assurance Claim

* Jenkins software provides sufficient support to adequately isolate the master node from malicious code or file access.

### Part 2
> Review OSS project documentation for alignment of security requirements with advertised features.

Jenkins nodes behave as a single distributed process.  As a consequence, the slave and master both perform similar and widely-varying processes, e.g. accessing files and triggering jobs.  This works within smaller projects.  Larger models require a more administration, i.e. a separation of trust. In these cases, the master is controlled by an administrator and slaves are designated to teams.  This designates the master as more trustworthy than any slave.  In Jenkins, this is a feature that can be enabled.

There are multiple reasons for enabling this feature. Consider the scenario where sensitive information needs is running on the master.  Without such a separation, malicious slaves might access this information. Once this setting is enabled, the slave will be unable to execute code on the master node.

If enabled, when a slave -> master request occurs, unless the command has been explicitly classified as intended for slave -> use, Jenkins will err on the side of caution and refuses to execute the command.

Jenkins even throws security exceptions to prevent undesirable node/information access.   

    java.lang.SecurityException: slave may not create file on the master
    See http://jenkins-ci.org/security-144 for more details

    java.lang.SecurityException: Sending org.jenkinsci.plugins.gitclient.CliGitAPIImpl$GetPrivateKeys from slave to master is prohibited.
    See http://jenkins-ci.org/security-144 for more details

As of version 1.587 Jenkins has added an optional security wall between the master and slaves.  Unfortunately, the subsystem is turned off by default (for backward compatibility).  Fortunately, there are a few ways to enable this setting:

* web UI at http://jenkins/configureSecurity

* Through file system, create or edit the file $JENKINS_HOME/secrets/slave-to-master-security-kill-switch so that it contains false

* Using a Groovy Hook Script and doing something like this:

        import jenkins.security.s2m.AdminWhitelistRule
        import jenkins.model.Jenkins
        Jenkins.instance.getInjector().getInstance(AdminWhitelistRule.class).setMasterKillSwitch(false)
    
The OSS documentation mentioned File access rules.  Jenkins lets user specify file access rules.  These rules are specified via tuples for read, write, creating directories/files, deleting directories/files, and retrieving node stats. These rules are then applied to files.  Regular expressions are used to map each rule to certain files.  

Slaves should not have access to the master's files.  Otherwise, the slave might access and even alter sensitive/imperative data on the mater.  Instead, the master should work on files of a slave.  

Slave -> master code execution is also discouraged, since it opens up possibilities of slave -> master exploitation.  Unfortunately, by default Jenkins allows slave -> master execution. Extra caution must be taken in such cases, because this configuration makes slave -> master exploitations more likely.  If a malicious slave controls a Java serialization payload, then when this code is deserialized on the master each field will be controlled by the slave, i.e. the slave is now changing code within the master node.  A vulnerability could also appear if the slave is allowed to execute certain portions of code on the mater.  In the below code a slave could supply any code to the master's function and therefore read any file on the master:

	// UNSAFE
	class SomeCodeThatRunsOnSlave {
	    void readBackSomeFileFromMaster() {
	        final String path = "...";
	        channel.call(new SlaveToMasterCallable<String,IOException>() {
	            public String call() {
	                return FileUtils.readFileToString(new File(path));
	            }
	        });
	    }
	}
Callable that delegates execution to deserialized object is dangerous and needs to be carefully examined, because a malicious slave can designate unintended Runnable object:

	// UNSAFE
	class MyCallable extends SlaveToMasterCallable<Void> {
	    Runnable r;
	    public Void call() {
	        r.run();
	        return null;
	    }
	}
To avoid such hassles, one may rewrite code to not call back to a master from a slave. Instead, supply the slave with all the data it needs so no callbacks are necessary. This hierarchy of calling from master -> slave may not always be possible/practical, but it's much more secure.


### Part 3
> Summarize your observations

Slave -> master code access/execution provides many opportunities for exploitation. Security must be set to prevent any slave -> master file access or code execution. It is best to give the slave no permissions on the master. 

Jenkins provides a security feature which prevents slave -> master file access/code execution.  Yet, this feature is disabled by default for backward compatibility.  This feature is also disabled because it largely hinders usability on smaller/one-node projects. 

Jenkins provides node-to-node permissions at the file granularity.  This can be used to secure sensitive information and prevent malicious local file execution.

### Part 4 
 > Review OSS project documentation for security related configuration and installation issues. Summarize your observations.

As a part of configuration, Jenkins lets user specify file access rules.  These rules are specified via tuples for read, write, creating directories/files, deleting directories/files, and retrieving node stats. These rules are then applied to files.  Regular expressions are used to map each rule to certain files. 

There are many possibilities of exploitation due to file access rules.  If files are later added/renamed and file access rules are not kept up-to-date, then malicious users may gain access/control over these files.  Also, if the user is unfamiliar with regex expressions, they might misconfigure file access rules.  Each of these cases can aid malicious users in exploiting the system.

Jenkins allows for command whitelisting to guarantee only certain commands are run on its nodes.  One can also specify currently rejected commands.  Whitelisting still requires a lot of verification that such a command it not exploitable by malicious slaves.  This requires careful analysis of what source code is being run by such commands.  One must also take into account all possible serialization fields (which the slave controls in slave -> master execution).  

Plugins also need to be configured for security.  Plugins also need to classify their methods and whether they are meant to be run on a master or on a slave.  For this purpose, the remote library has added the interfaces to control master method access.  There is also an extendable class to guarantee only master -> slave execution (called MasterToSlaveCallable).  The FileCallable is similar and only enables master -> slave file access.  These classes and wrappers help prevent the mis-use of accessible master-code by malicious slaves.

<!------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Security Requirement Claim 3
 * Dan R

### Part 1
> Assurance Claim

* Jenkins authentication mechanisms are sufficient to prevent malicious users from gaining access to the system

### Part 2
> Review OSS project documentation for alignment of security requirements with advertised features. 

According to the [Standard Security Setup](https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Standard+Security+Setup) page, Jenkins will allow all users to run anything as Jenkins by default. This can be fixed by establishing an authentication mechanism and setting permissions. The authentication component is more relevant in this case.  

Jenkins supports two primary authentication models. For large installations, a corporate service like LDAP is recommended. For smaller installations, Jenkins can provide its own user database.  While not supported in the base installation, some plugins and configurations allow additional authentication features, such as authentication via github, or 2FA. 

### Part 3
> Summarize your observations

Jenkins has many authentication and authorization features that can prevent unauthorized access to the system. These features are sufficient to prevent unauthorized access via traditional attacks against login forms. To gain access, attackers would need to obtain legitimate credentials or obtain a shell with code execution system on the host system.  

### Part 4
 > Review OSS project documentation for security related configuration and installation issues. Summarize your observations.

<!------------------------------------------------------------------->
## Security Requirement Claim 5 
* all team members

### Part 1
> Assurance Claim

* Jenkins adequately secures files to prevent unauthorized file accesses

### Part 2
> Review OSS project documentation for alignment of security requirements with advertised features. 

### Part 3
> Summarize your observations

### Part 4
> Review OSS project documentation for security related configuration and installation issues. Summarize your observations.
